==========================
END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT
==========================

for Anaconda, Miniconda, and Conda
----------------------------------
Anaconda ("the Software Product") and accompanying documentation is
licensed and not sold. The Software Product is protected by copyright laws
and treaties, as well as laws and treaties related to other forms of
intellectual property. Continuum Analytics Inc or its subsidiaries,
affiliates, and suppliers (collectively "Continuum ") own intellectual
property rights in the Software Product. The Licensee's ("you" or "your")
license to download, use, copy, or change the Software Product is subject
to these rights and to all the terms and conditions of this End User
License Agreement ("Agreement").

In addition to Continuum-licensed software, the Software product contains a
collection of software packages from other sources ("Other Vendor Tools").
Continuum may also distribute updates to these packages on an "as is" basis
and subject to their individual license agreements.   These licenses are
available either in the package itself or via request to info@continuum.io.
Continuum reserves the right to change which Other Vendor Tools are
provided in Anaconda.

Attribution License
===================
Redistribution and derivative use of Anaconda, with or without
modification, in source or binary form is explicitly permitted provided
that:

1. You include a copy of this EULA in all copies of the derived software.
2. In advertising and labeling material for products built with Anaconda
you mention that your product either includes or derives from Anaconda.
"Powered by Anaconda" is the suggested phrase.


Export Regulations
==================
Any use or distribution of Anaconda is made under conditions that the user
and/or distributor is in full compliance with all export and other
governing laws of the United States of America, including full and ongoing
compliance with the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) of the United
States Department of Commerce. See www.commerce.gov/ and
http://www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/regulations/export-administration-
regulations-ear.  Use or distribution of Continuum software products to any
persons, entities or countries currently under US sanctions is strictly
prohibited.   Anaconda is classified with an ECCN of 5D992 with no license
required for export to non-embargoed countires.

The United States currently has embargoes against Cuba, Iran, North Korea,
Sudan and Syria. The exportation, re-exportation, sale or supply, directly
or indirectly, from the United States, or by a U.S. person wherever
located, of any Continuum software to any of these countries is strictly
prohibited without prior authorization by the United States Government  By
accepting this Agreement, you represent to Continuum that you will comply
with all applicable export regulations for Anaconda.

No Implied Warranty or Fitness for Any Use
==========================================
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


